---
title: CareShield Life
permalink: /managing-medical-expenses/schemes-and-subsidies/careshield-life/
variant: tiptap
description: Find out more about CareShield Life subsidies.
third_nav_title: Schemes and Subsidies
---
<h3><strong>What is CareShield Life?</strong></h3><div class="iframe-wrapper"><iframe height="450" width="100%" allowfullscreen="true" frameborder="0" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/kblBnfw0rek?si=iMOGDYksiQRN4bLS"></iframe></div><p><strong>CareShield Life</strong> is a long-term care insurance scheme that provides basic financial support should an insured develop severe disability, especially during old age, and need personal and medical care for a prolonged duration (i.e. long-term care).</p><hr><p><strong>Why do we need CareShield Life?</strong></p><p>1 in 2 healthy Singaporeans aged 65 could develop severe disability in their lifetime, and may need long-term care. Severe disability may arise due to a sudden disabling event (e.g. stroke and spinal cord injuries), the worsening of chronic conditions and diseases (e.g. diabetes), or the progression of illnesses as we age (e.g. dementia).<br><br>It is important that we plan early for our future long-term care needs, but working out how much to save can be difficult since the cost of long-term care is uncertain. Insurance schemes like CareShield Life help to pool our risks together and ensure protection against potentially catastrophic long-term care costs, providing peace of mind.</p><hr><h3><strong>Who does CareShield Life cover?</strong></h3><h6><strong>Singaporeans born in 1980 or later:</strong></h6><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>You are automatically covered under CareShield Life from 1 October 2020, or when you turn 30, whichever is later. You will receive a letter about 2 months before your 30th birthday, and your personalised CareShield Life premiums will be made available closer to your 30th birthday <a href="https://www.careshieldlife.gov.sg/eservices/careshield-life/my-policy.html" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">here</a>.</p></li></ul><p><a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank"><br></a><strong>Singaporeans born in 1979 or earlier:</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Participation is optional.</p></li><li><p>If you are born between 1970 and 1979, insured under ElderShield 400, and have not developed severe disability, you have been automatically enrolled into CareShield Life from 1 December 2021. No action is required if you wish to join CareShield Life. If you do not wish to remain on CareShield Life, you can opt out by 31 Dec 2023.&nbsp;</p></li><li><p>If you are not automatically enrolled and wish to join CareShield Life, you may access the Application to join CareShield Life e-Service with your Singpass.</p></li><li><p>You can check your personalised CareShield Life premiums <a href="https://www.careshieldlife.gov.sg/eservices/careshield-life/check-my-premium.html" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank"><u>here</u></a>&nbsp;using your Singpass.</p></li></ul><p>The following video gives a brief introduction of CareShield Life, MediSave Care and ElderFund.</p><p></p>