---
title: Jobs and Careers
permalink: /join-us/jobs-careers/
variant: tiptap
description: Career opportunities with Ministry of Health.
---
<h4><strong>JOIN US IN BUILDING A HEALTHY NATION</strong></h4><p>There’s no more rewarding career than contributing to the protection of the health of a nation.<br><br>We’re looking for passionate people to join our team and help us deliver on our mission to:</p><ul><li><p>promote good health and reduce illness;</p></li><li><p>ensure access to good and affordable healthcare; and</p></li><li><p>pursue medical excellence.</p></li></ul><h3>Be empowered</h3><p>We’ll support you to perform at your best in the area that draws on your strengths. Whether you’re developing policies and services, improving healthcare financing schemes or evaluating new medical technology, you’ve got an important role to play in protecting and improving the health and well-being of all Singaporeans.</p><h3>Be collaborative</h3><p>We work together towards a common goal. We look for solutions and challenge each other in pursuit of a better outcome and ask for help when we need it.</p><h3>Be dedicated</h3><p>We believe in promoting and supporting lifelong employability for each individual. Through our well-structured career development planning and programmes, we aim to develop you as a competent and high-performing individual as you build your career and learn new skills in areas such as:</p><ul><li><p>acute, primary and community care</p></li><li><p>healthcare financing</p></li><li><p>health regulations</p></li><li><p>health research</p></li><li><p>disease control</p></li><li><p>corporate services</p></li></ul><h4><strong>Career Paths</strong></h4><p>You have a choice of career under three schemes of service and can look forward to greater exposure to various functions of MOH as part of your career development.&nbsp;</p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Medical Service</p></li><li><p>Management Executive</p></li></ol><h4><strong>Key Job Roles</strong></h4><p>You will be involved in formulating and implementing policies that support the Ministry’s four key roles.</p><h4>Systems Design And Governance</h4><p>Play a key role in designing and governing the healthcare eco-system to ensure that it is able to support the national mission of keeping Singaporeans healthy, to provide good and affordable healthcare to all Singaporeans, and to pursue medical excellence.</p><h4>National Health Service Planning</h4><p>Get involved in identifying and implementing public health strategies for disease prevention and control, determining the services required for patient care and developing health and clinical services customised to the needs of the local health situation.</p><h4>Healthcare Financing System</h4><p>Play a key role in keeping healthcare affordable for all and support the introduction of new clinical initiatives, by ensuring that appropriate payment structures and incentives are in place.</p><h4>Healthcare Regulation</h4><p>Be responsible for ensuring that healthcare services delivered in Singapore meet safety standards and are of reasonable quality.&nbsp; Help draft and effect laws, perform enforcement and audits to ensure compliance, influence the ethics and conduct of the different groups of healthcare professionals, and establish a national standard of care provision to maintain consistency of quality in care provided to patients.</p><p></p>