---
title: Average Number of Cyberattacks On Public Healthcare Institutions Annually
permalink: /newsroom/parliamentary-q-and-a/cyberattacks/
date: 2023-11-23
layout: post
description: ""
image: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<p><strong>NOTICE PAPER NO. 2397<br>NOTICE OF QUESTION FOR WRITTEN ANSWER<br>FOR THE SITTING OF PARLIAMENT ON 22 NOVEMBER 2023<br><br>Name and Constituency of Member of Parliament</strong><br>Mr Melvin Yong Yik Chye<br>MP for Radin Mas<br><br><strong>Question No. 5213<br></strong><br>To ask the Minister for Health (a) over the past five years, what is the average number of cyberattacks faced by our public healthcare institutions annually; (b) what safeguards are put in place to protect such critical systems; and (c) what allowed the cyberattack on 1 November 2023 to succeed in bringing a seven-hour disruption to the websites of several public healthcare institutions.<br><br><strong><u>Answer</u></strong><br><br>Synapxe receives and blocks an average of 3,000 malicious emails per day, and 1.7 million attempts to bypass internet-facing firewalls per month.&nbsp;<br><br>Critical Information Infrastructure in the healthcare sector are regulated under the Cybersecurity Act. We adopt a layered Defence-In-Depth approach to safeguard our systems. In addition, we have an Advanced Security Operations Centre with detection and response capabilities; and incident response processes calibrated against actual security incidents and aligned to the National Cybersecurity Incident Response Framework. More than 10 cybersecurity Table-Top Exercises have also been conducted in the last five years.&nbsp;<br><br>The internet connectivity disruption for public healthcare institutions on 1 November 2023 was triggered by abnormal spikes in internet traffic, also known as a Distributed Denial-of-Service (DDoS) attack. The abnormal traffic circumvented the anti-DDoS blocking services and overwhelmed the firewall. This caused the firewall to filter out the traffic, as well as other services requiring internet connectivity, including websites and internet-reliant services, which became inaccessible.&nbsp;<br><br>Since the disruption, Synapxe has enhanced its anti-DDoS measures. The public healthcare sector will take this opportunity to learn from the episode, review its defences against DDoS attacks, and improve its incident response and recovery time.</p>